# Test Fullstack - Factored


This repository contains all the code for the basic system where you can observe the profile of each employee. It is divided by

- *Front-end:* files located in the **fe** folder,  in javascript with react technology.
- *Back-end:* files located in the **BE** folder, in python with fastapi technology.


## Run with Docker

To run the backend and frontend elements contained in this repository you'll need to have installed Docker in your machine. Next step is downloading (or cloning) the content locally into your computer, when doing that you'll have a **"test_full_stack_factored"** folder.

Navigate to that folder using the terminal
Ex: `cd /user/documents/test_full_stack_factored`

When ready you'll need to run the next commands into your terminal.
### Backend container

    cd BE
    docker build . -t backend  
    docker network create factoredNetwork
    docker run -e "ENABLE_CORS=true" --name backend --rm --network factoredNetwork -p 8000:8000 backend

We need to create factoredNetwork as a network in which the containers can communicate, because otherwise they will be running in different networks.

> **Note:** The *"ENABLE_CORS=true"* is for allowing the CORS policy between containers. 
### Frontend container

    cd ..
    cd fe
    docker build . -t frontend
    docker run -e "ENABLE_CORS=true" --rm --name frontend --network factoredNetwork -p 3000:3000 frontend
    

## Using the system
After building and running the docker containers, the app should be accesible at http://localhost:3000 from any web browser. And the backend services at http://localhost:8000/docs#/default where the user can see the API REST documentation generated by fastapi. 

Some of the users created in the database credentials are;
|Email|Password| Has Photo?|
|--|--|--|
| andrew@factored.ai | imcool123|X|
| srael@factored.ai | israelrocks |X|
| a.trianaa@factored.ai | contrasenasegura333 |X|
| l.camargo@test.com | quesehagalaluz@ ||

> **Note:** The has photo column represent with an **X** if the DB saves a URL to a profile picture for displaying in the app. 

## App basics

The app retrieves the user information from the backend when a email and password given by the user, matches with a record in the DB. Then, the information is stored in the web browser until a logout from the user. 

> ***DISCLAIMER:*** This is a really insecure way to manage sessions, it is just to implement a full-stack web login in short time, by any circumstances this solution can be used in production. 

## Docker hub

The **fe** and **BE** folders content is also available in Docker hub.
- https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/santiagotri/backend-factored/general
- https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/santiagotri/frontend-factored/general

***By: Santiago Triana Arjona***
